# Chat Components

# Message
Message object represent a single message in a thread.
Messages can be sent by the user or generated by the LLM.
Each message has an
- **id**: a unique identifier for the message.
- **role**: which can be either "user" or "assistant".

### User Message

User message is a message sent by the user.
User messages can be of two types:
- **prompt**: a simple text message sent by the user.
    - **message**: a simple text message sent by the user.
- **action**: a action that is triggered when the user interacts with the message. For example, a button click.
    - **message**: a simple text representation of the action. Displayed to the user.
    - **context**: a context object that contains the state of the user interface.
    - **actionDetails**: a string that contains the details of the action meant to be sent to the LLM.

### Assistant Message
Assistant message is a message generated by the LLM.
Assistant messages can be of two types:
- **message**: a simple text message generated by the LLM.
- **responseTemplate**: a response template generated by the LLM.
    - **name**: the name of the response template.
    - **templateProps**: the properties of the response template.

## Thread Manager
A thread is a single chat session. It stores the list of messages used
to interact with the LLM. It stores the state and actions available
for managing the thread for example sending messages, cancelling generation,
updating messages, etc.

## Thread List Manager
Thread List Managers are used to manage a collection of threads.
It stores the state and actions available for managing the thread list
for example loading initial list of threads from server, switching to a new thread, selecting a thread,
deleting a thread, etc.

## Chat Provider
The Chat Provider is a component that wraps your app and provides the thread and thread list managers to your app.
It also provides the chat context to your app.
